Namaste!
Three hundred and eighty!
Once again, an opportunity to look back, questions,
opinions, complaints, … accusations!
Let us see!
I was unwell..
I have missed the videos you had sent me..
I will ensure I watch them regularly from
now on.. said a friend.
This is just a sample of some of the unexpected
love that our viewers are showing me.
Almost like a family member, almost like a
big brother, or a friend, it is truly heartening,
when I read the messages they send me.
Another person hit me with this!
This gap.. seems to have become a bit too
long.
It would be much better if you did this a
bit more frequently…
And, guess who this was?
The same person, who, not too long ago, said,
“You are sending it daily!
And, I am not able to handle the load!”
Same person!
I don’t know what to do!
Seriously!
Another friend wrote to me and said, “This
is more manageable.
Your original schedule was a bit unfair on
those who joined in a bit late.
But now, thanks to you, I am able to catch
up.”
So, yes, it is a push and pull between consistency,
regularity and accommodating the distracted
world we live in.
“There is too much stuff out there, I can’t
handle you daily!” says a group, on one
side.
And, another group, on the other side, demanding
that I give them more!
There is a good dynamic tension, if you know
what I mean.
One person complained about the Mother Teresa
pose that I had used in one of my thumbnails.
“I personally feel it’s wrong, do you
really know who she was?” — and he went
on to bring a political / religious touch
to the conversation.
Please get this.
There is no connection or correlation whatsoever
between this Quotidian series and those concepts.
At all.
So, you need not be concerned or worried that
I will talk politics or religion.
I don’t know much about it.
I am not interested in that.
If that’s what you are here for, you are
in the wrong place.
Here is another comment.
“In Quotidian 370, you had talked about
a productivity trick, and I have been waiting
since then, but you haven’t announced it,
why…!” they wanted to know.
I think it was Mahatma Gandhi, they used to
tell this story about him.
There was this little boy who ate a lot of
sweets.
His Mom brings the kid over to the Mahatma
and asks him to give the boy some good advice.
But, Gandhiji asks the Mom to bring the kid
over after fifteen days.
And, promptly, after fifteen days, when the
child is brought again, he advises the boy
with a simple and short “Dear Child, Do
not binge on sweets!”
The mother asks him respectfully, “Why couldn’t
you tell this on that day?
Why did you make me wait fifteen days?”
To which, the Mahatma is supposed to have
responded: “The advice is easy to give.
But, the implementation…
To follow that advice is hard.
Am I able to follow my own advice?
I am struggling with it myself…
I wanted to test it out myself first.”
Exactly the same sentiment here.
I am testing it out.
I hit upon something very interesting.
But, before I share it with you, I am testing
it out.
Closed beta phase, you could call it.
Davos wrote to me and commented about my dress.
“What’s up with your dress, something
fell on it?
Is there a story behind it?
It looks a bit sweaty..!”
Yes, I am shooting it in a place where there
is no good airconditioning.
And summer is approaching, you see…
You may be in Davos, .. lucky you!
Rohith Kumar asked me — “How can I become
like you… bookreading?
Or meditation?
Or what should I do sir?”
First of all, I am not some bigshot who deserves
being asked questions like “How should I
become like you”…
Secondly, if you would allow me to use your
own words and play around a bit…
it is not “bookreading” OR “meditation”..
Look at it as “meditating about the books
you read”.
I will repeat.
Rather than read ten different books on a
specific subject, read one book on that subject
TEN TIMES.
Recently, I read a book where I chanced upon
this beautiful, interesting, advice.
Because, every time you read that book, something
more will sink in, and, a new dimension, a
new perspective, you may hit upon.
Rather than browse around in a desultory,
superficial fashion, probably it is better
to dwell deep and analyse well.
Rajavelu told me about this thumbnail, and
said he couldn’t understand this thumbnail.
Looks like there is a knife through your heart,
there is a lot of bleeding…
I understood the video, once I watched it,
but the thumbnail, I couldn’t grasp it…
he said.
Oh, one little bit about these thumbnails,
my dear Rajavelu.
I just try to pick something in the video,
something that I have spoken, something that
I have shown, and picturise it in an interesting
manner.
That’s all.
A little creative liberty there.
So, if you look at this video, for example,
there is this story of a guy who has a chip
embedded near his heart, and that chip contains
a code…
And that was the reason for this thumbnail.
Shine and Glow — the poet or poetess that
that person is, shared with me something really
interesting about beauty.
She referred to the natural fact of the watermelon
not hanging down from up in a tree as something
truly beautiful!
Very interesting!
Blender Forever helped us all by saying, “Oh,
here are the upcoming numbers and the corresponding
dates.”
Q375–8th February, Q376, Q377, and so on.
That’s when I realised that probably some
of you missed what the whole game was about.
Why is it seemingly random?
When will the next Quotidian be released?
Is it not happening everyday like in 2021?
Answers to such questions can be had if you
watch Quotidian — 369.
I had explained it quite extensively there.
I have explained there about when we are meeting
next.
And you will understand that it is revolving
around the concept of Pi.
That 22/7…
Or the irrational 3.1415…
The dates come based on that special sequence
in the value of Pi.
So, you will learn that the next meeting would
be on the 21st of March, and the one after
that on the 23rd of March.
Sumitra asked me — I am still searching
for a leader..
I have seen many BOSSes.
But, I am still looking for that leader.
I want to turn that question back at her.
I want to ask her — Have you been a good
follower?
You keep asking for a leader..
But, have you been a good follower first?
I think it was Vivekananda, Swami Vivekananda…
who said: “He who wants to lead or command,
must know how to obey”.
I am thinking of publishing a Quotidian about
this very topic.
What are the qualities that represent that
ideal second-in-command, that ideal person
who serves a leader, that ideal follower,
let’s see..
Arunkumar Jothilal said: I went around googling
for it, and that’s when I learned much.
I looked at the etymology for the word and
noticed that the original meaning comes from
Old English.
Yes!
This is an amazing habit that you’ve got
going there.
It is a great hobby.
Very interesting stuff…
When you look deeper into inscrutable matters,
inner meanings, and original etymology, it
will suddenly plop on your lap unexpectedly!
Also, one more thing you can try is “The
same word, what was in French, what was in
Spanish”.
That would be very interesting too.
Try it!
We saw that Need For Speed.
Should we go fast?
Or… should we go slow?
And that’s when this happened.
We were trying to login to Facebook.
And, Facebook showed us this beautiful prompt.
It talked about how your account could be
secured, introduced a few steps, and had a
progress bar that slowly went, “Checking
your app passwords”.
Don’t we know about how powerful the Facebook
servers are?
Don’t I know that there are not too many
App passwords to be checked?
But, if it rushes too fast, we wouldn’t
know what Facebook is doing..!
And, if it does it very fast, we will wonder
did it even do it at all?!
For THAT reason, consciously, artificially,
on purpose, it runs a slow progress bar, “See?
I am checking your passwords carefully, do
you get that?”
it seems to say.
That was really really beautiful!
A friend pointed out to me about that guy
from Silicon Valley..
The guy who squats in front of his manager,
“Hmm, give me the stuff I asked you for!”.
He referred to this persistent character in
the Raja Harishchandra story, by name Nakshatreyan,
and wondered if he was the same kind of guy.
Yes.
Correct!
It is Nakshatreyan!
He also told me that the number of Shlokas
that Lord Ganesha struggled to understand
the meaning of…
Seems there is an exact count of that — 8192!
Those were the number of shlokas that were
unusually hard so that Vyasa had time to cook
up the next one.
Smart!
Surya Krishna wrote a long note to me.
Please find the time to read it at leisure.
But, it was basically about “Many people
have said many things about your Quotidians!
But, I would like to tell you about your thumbnails.
They are really interesting.
Thanks a lot.”
And he continued, “This video had a thumbnail.
A shaved head sprouted a hair style!
You had a beautiful girl to pose along with
you too!”
That was when I realised that probably you
are all too young, or probably I am too old,
and I am referring to a very old movie..
In fact, the first movie featuring John Travolta.
Called Grease.
Perhaps it was this movie, Grease, that was
one of the first teenage love movies that
became such a roaring hit on the big screen.
Watch it if you get the time.
An interesting movie with a lot of good songs.
And, it was from this movie that I picked
up the idea for the thumbnail.
Why?
Well..
Grease.
That means Frictionless.
I hope you get the connection.
Varadarasan appreciated me for the concept
of the Desire Path.
And, he brought in a deeply philosophical
analogy from family life.
He quipped that it was applicable even at
home where the wife and the mother-in-law
can actually work it out if only there was
an accommodation of the Desire Path.
I thought about it a bit more.
Such an interesting thought.
Let us take it further.
And that was when it occurred to me — If
we were to implement the Desire Path at home
soon after the wedding, we should pack off
the mother-in-law and the father-in-law, or
rather the boy’s parents on a honeymoon.
Please leave the house.
By the time you are back, the house would
have a Desire Path.
Of this girl who had just come in.
And that is how things should be, if you want
marital bliss.
Think about it!
Vignesh Shankar told me — Now I get what
passion really means.
You launched one video every day consistently,
now I understand.
You have a commitment.
You want to pass it on.
Yes.
But..
There was one more revelation that I had.
This thing they repeat often “Do it with
passion”, “Do it with passion”… many
people have given many definitions over the
years, to this Passion-word.
I got one.
One could even say I learned it the hard way.
And, this is MY definition for passion.
And it goes like this.
It says, “It is the ability to be at it,
even when you are not good at it, yet!”
Even if you are not an expert at it, even
when you are still learning the ropes, the
feeling that you will get it some day, that
you will become an expert at it some day,
and I have the stamina and willpower to pull
through till that day, probably that is passion!
Probably that is the pain, suffering, struggle,
the Jesus Christ reference that we saw earlier?
To be at it even when you are not good at
it yet!
That perhaps is passion!
One friend commented to me that this word
Mentor — I didn’t know that it was really
about a person…
Thanks a lot, that’s so useful, he said!
I am gonna burst his bubble a wee bit, I am
sorry.
Because, the information I gave you was not
“complete”.
I had told you the story of Telemachus, the
son of Ulysses, and this person called Mentor,
this old man was assigned to take care of
the boy and the story went well, or so we
thought.
Sorry, the story DIDN’T go well!
That old man was a drunkard, he wasted time,
slept all day, Telemachus suffered without
a mentor!
And, that’s when one of the favorite Gods
in Greek Mythology, favorite Gods of Ulysses,
the Goddess of Learning, Literature, Arts,
Warfare, a direct daughter of Zeus himself,
Athena by name, she, one of the skills she
had was the ability to shape-shift.
She became the old man, Mentor, and mentored
Telemachus!
So, all the women out there!
You can be truly proud and happy that the
first ever mentor was a woman!
In fact, if you roll back in time, I talked
about this on International Women’s Day,
Happy International Women’s Day!
Thanks then!
We are at the end of 380!
In the next episode, 381, we will talk about
those good qualities that a subordinate should
possess to do great things with an amazing
leader!
Thank you!